DOCS-11313 Restructure upgrade instructions for parent/child task structure (#384)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-index.adoc

You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

It is important to use the most current version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

== About Node Configuration Upgrades

Node configuration upgrades involve scripts for provisioning AWS and Azure infrastructure, preparing each node, bootstrapping a new Runtime Fabric, adjusting operating system limits, and performing jobs to clean up system resources.

Node configuration upgrades are delivered as an updated install script version using the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.

[NOTE]
If you are upgrading the node configuration with updated install scripts, the latest version of the appliance is automatically downloaded and used.

== Apply the Upgrades

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, perform the following tasks:

. Upgrade Runtime Fabric components
. Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility
. Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance
. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version
. Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy.
. Run the upgrade
. Upgrade node configurations

=== Prerequisites

> * BBefore upgrading your production environment, perform these steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric instance to verify compatibility with your environment. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric. When your nonproduction upgrade succeeds, perform these steps in your production environment.  

Author: ```suggestion
* Before upgrading your production environment, perform these steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric instance to verify compatibility with your environment. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric. When your nonproduction upgrade succeeds, perform these steps in your production environment.  
```

. Next to the appliance version, click *Upgrade Available*.
. Select the *Copy Link* icon next to *Installer package* to copy the code snippet, as shown in the following example:
+
```
rtfctl appliance upgrade --url https://<upgrade-package-information>
```
. Paste the code snippet in a text editor for reference. 

=== Update the Mule Deployments Running on Runtime Fabric to the Latest Patch Version

. Using your web browser, navigate to the *Applications* tab in Runtime Manager.
. Select an application and select *Manage Application*. 
. Ensure that the value in the *Runtime version* field indicates that an update is available and select it.
. Select *Deploy* to redeploy the application with the updated Mule runtime engine version.
. Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric instance.

=== Verify That Runtime Fabric Is Healthy
. Using your web browser, navigate to the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager and verify that Runtime Fabric reports an *Active* status.
. Open a terminal to a Runtime Fabric controller node.
. Run `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl status` and confirm that the cluster status is healthy.

> . Keep your terminal open to use in later steps.

Author: ```suggestion
. Keep your browser session open to perform the remainder of the upgrade subtasks.
```

. The selected node is added to the cluster after upgrading.

To run the upgrade:

. Using your terminal open on a controller node, switch to the root user. 
. Paste the command you copied in Step 5, "Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance". 
+
----
sudo /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl appliance upgrade --url <cluster-installer-url>
----
+
A confirmation is displayed that indicates the upgrade is being performed in the background.
. Run `sudo gravity status` on a node and verify that the cluster status is “updating”.
. To monitor the upgrade procedure progress, using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command:
+
----
sudo /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer/gravity plan
----
. To confirm that the upgrade has completed successfully, run the following command:
+
----
sudo gravity status
----

. Verify that the cluster status transitioned from *Updating* to *Active*. 
. If the Runtime Fabric cluster version was 1.0.x prior to upgrading and an HTTP proxy is in use, run the following command to apply the HTTP proxy settings:
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply http-proxy --confirm existing
----

=== Upgrade Node Configurations

> Perform the following step on *every node* to ensure that system configurations are current:

Author: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps on every node to ensure that system configurations are current:
```

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: upgrade-cluster.adoc, upgrade-components.adoc

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance, components, the `rtfctl` command-line utility, and node configurations.

> == About Appliance Upgrades

Reviewer: Global: I thought we were avoiding "About" in titles?

== About `rtfctl` Command-line Utility Upgrades

The `rtfctl` command-line utility is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform appliance and node configuration upgrades.

You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

It is important to use the most current version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

== About Node Configuration Upgrades

Node configuration upgrades involve scripts for provisioning AWS and Azure infrastructure, preparing each node, bootstrapping a new Runtime Fabric, adjusting operating system limits, and performing jobs to clean up system resources.

Node configuration upgrades are delivered as an updated install script version using the *Runtime Fabric downloads* page in Runtime Manager.

[NOTE]
If you are upgrading the node configuration with updated install scripts, the latest version of the appliance is automatically downloaded and used.

== Apply the Upgrades

To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, perform the following tasks:

> . Upgrade Runtime Fabric components

Reviewer: These could take terminating punctuation because they're full sentences.

> . Upgrade Runtime Fabric components

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade Runtime Fabric components.
```

> . Upgrade Runtime Fabric components

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade Runtime Fabric components.
```

> . Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility.
```

> . Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance.
```

> . Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version

Author: ```suggestion
. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version.
```

. Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy.

> . Run the upgrade

Author: ```suggestion
. Run the upgrade.
```

> . Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility
> . Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance
> . Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version
> . Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy.
> . Run the upgrade
> . Upgrade node configurations

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility
. Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance
. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version
. Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy.
. Run the upgrade
. Upgrade node configurations.
```

> . Upgrade node configurations

Author: ```suggestion
. Upgrade node configurations.
```

+
In most cases, the upgrade takes fewer than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active* and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the component upgrade is complete.
+
If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection disconnects during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.
. Keep your browser session open to perform the remainder of the upgrade subtasks.

=== Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility

. If you are not using the latest version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility, download the latest version with the following command:
+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric
sudo curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
sudo chmod +x rtfctl
----
. If you are a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, you can update `rtfctl` without needing to download a new version. To do so, run the following command:
+
----
`rtfctl update`
----

=== Upgrade the Runtime Fabric Appliance

=== Prerequisites  

* Verify that `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.

> * Verify you have root privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that you have root privileges.
```

** Applications serving inbound requests scaled to a minimum of two replicas.

To upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance:

. Using your web browser, navigate to Runtime Manager instance and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of Runtime Fabric instances.
. Select the Runtime Fabric instance you want to upgrade.
. Next to the appliance version, click *Upgrade Available*.
. Select the *Copy Link* icon next to *Installer package* to copy the code snippet, as shown in the following example:
+
```
rtfctl appliance upgrade --url https://<upgrade-package-information>
```
. Paste the code snippet in a text editor for reference. 

=== Update the Mule Deployments Running on Runtime Fabric to the Latest Patch Version

. Using your web browser, navigate to the *Applications* tab in Runtime Manager.
. Select an application and select *Manage Application*. 
. Ensure that the value in the *Runtime version* field indicates that an update is available and select it.
. Select *Deploy* to redeploy the application with the updated Mule runtime engine version.
. Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric instance.

> === Verify That Runtime Fabric Is Healthy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Verify That Runtime Fabric is Healthy
```

= Upgrade Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: upgrade-cluster.adoc, upgrade-components.adoc

> To upgrade Anypoint Runtime on VMs/Bare Metal, you need to upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance, components, the `rtfctl` command-line utility, and node configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance, components, the `rtfctl` command-line utility, and node configurations.
```
Note that Anypoint Runtime is not an acceptable abbreviation; see term list.

Reviewer 2: Please apply the same organizational edits in this PR as in DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385.
I will try to not repeat myself; will focus on copyedits and minor suggested rewordings that might nevertheless be the same between the two requests.

== About Appliance Upgrades
Appliance upgrades affect platform-layer components, which include Docker, Kubernetes, and the Ops Center. These platform-layer components are installed on virtual machines (VMs) or bare-metal servers that act as nodes on the cluster.

Appliance upgrades are applied using the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

> Appliance upgrades are applied as a rolling upgrade to each node, one at a time. To minimize impact to running applications, a minimum of three controller nodes is required to ensure the cluster remains available. In addition, there should be at least one worker node's worth of unused resources available to allow for applications to be redeployed as each worker node is taken offline to be upgraded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Appliance upgrades are applied to each node, one at a time, to minimize impact to running applications.
```
I'm not convinced that we need to tell the audience the rest: if the upgrade is applied as specified in the prev. sentence, the rest becomes moot.

However, if it makes you uncomfortable to omit this info, then I suggest overtly connecting it to the first sentence, something like...
```suggestion
Appliance upgrades are applied to each node, one at a time. This _rolling upgrade_  process minimizes the impact to running applications by ensuring that the minimum three controller nodes are still active, ensuring cluster availability. This process also ensures that at least one worker node's worth of unused resources are available to allow for applications to be redeployed as each worker node is taken offline to be upgraded.
```

> == About Component Upgrades

Reviewer 2: Reword as suggested in DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385.

Runtime Fabric component upgrades involve the internal services that run within the appliance used to facilitate communication to the Anypoint control plane, provide load balancing, and log and metrics forwarding.

Runtime Fabric component upgrades are applied within Runtime Manager via a button that's visible when an upgrade is made available.

Runtime Fabric component upgrades do not require adding a node.

> == About  `rtfctl` Command-line Utility Upgrades

Author: ```suggestion
== About `rtfctl` Command-line Utility Upgrades
```

> == About  `rtfctl` Command-line Utility Upgrades

Reviewer 2: I found an extra-space typo in this section in the merged DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385
....

The `rtfctl` command-line utility is used to manage Runtime Fabric and perform appliance and node configuration upgrades.

You upgrade the `rtfctl` utility from the command line.

It is important to use the most current version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

> About Node Configuration Upgrades

Reviewer 2: If you keep this org...
```suggestion
== About Node Configuration Upgrades
```

```
[root@ip-10-0-245-74 /]# /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl version
COMPONENT    VERSION                  
rtfctl       0.3.122           
agent        1.9.3                    
appliance    1.1.1619717580-73a133d   
kubernetes   1.16
```

[NOTE]
The Runtime Fabric component and appliance versions that are in use are also displayed in the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager. If an upgrade is available, an "Upgrade to vx.x" message is displayed.

== Determine the Most Recent Component Versions Available

Review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] for information about the latest component versions.

== Apply the Upgrades

> To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, you:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal:
```
OR, given that this is a "supertask" with "subtasks," maybe...:
```suggestion
To upgrade Anypoint Runtime Fabric on VMs/Bare Metal, perform the following tasks:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: End each of the following list items with a period if you use the imperative/verb approach (DO this); no periods if these are task names/nouns.

. Upgrade Runtime Fabric components
. Upgrade the `rtfctl` command-line utility
. Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance
. Update the Mule deployments running on Runtime Fabric to the latest patch version

> . Verify Runtime Fabric is healthy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that Runtime Fabric is healthy.
```
Per style ref; same for "ensure"

. Run the upgrade
. Upgrade node configurations

=== Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer 2: Ditto comments in DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385
 re. the prereqs.

* Before upgrading your production environment, perform the following steps on a nonproduction Runtime Fabric to verify compatibility with your environment. Plan to upgrade when your team is not deploying new applications or managing existing applications on Runtime Fabric.  
* Review the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Release Notes] information.

> * Provision additional worker nodes as needed to maintain availability of applications when applying appliance upgrades.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps the earlier mention of this requirement (Line 14) is unnecessary given this prereq?
Does this mean that the user should also ensure that there are enough controller nodes?

+
If the amount of available resources for application deployments is less than the resources of one worker node, add another worker node with the same amount of CPU, memory, and disk resources to Runtime Fabric.
+
See xref:manage-nodes.adoc[How to Add a Node to Runtime Fabric].

=== Upgrade Runtime Fabric Components

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385
comments about performing actions in the sandbox vs. production

. Navigate to your Runtime Fabric by selecting it on the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager.
. Select *Upgrade to vx.x*. 
+
The status of the Runtime Fabric is updated to show that the upgrade procedure is in progress.
. Wait for the status to transition to *Active*. 
+
In most cases, the upgrade takes fewer than 10 minutes. When the status transitions to *Active* and the version of the Runtime Fabric reflects the new version, the component upgrade is complete.
+
If the Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager connection disconnects during the upgrade, connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.

> . Keep your browser session open to use in later steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Keep your browser session open to perform the remainder of the upgrade subtasks.
```

> === Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-line Utility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Upgrade the `rtfctl` Command-Line Utility
```

. If you are not using the latest version of the `rtfctl` command-line utility, download the latest version with the following command:
+
----
cd /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric
sudo curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----
. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` binary: 
+
----
sudo chmod +x rtfctl
----

> . Alternatively, to update `rtfctl` in place as a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, run:

Reviewer 2: I did not comment on this in DOCS-11300 add topic for upgrading RTF-SMK #385 and I probably should have: is this truly an alternative, or are there two different approaches for two different types of users?
It might be a bit difficult to translate "...update `rtfctl` in place as a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary."

Author: good call. Should just simplify this to: 

```suggestion
. If you are a user who owns the `rtfctl` binary, you can update `rtfctl` without needing to download a new version. To do so, run the following command:
```

+
----
`rtfctl update`
----

=== Upgrade the Runtime Fabric Appliance

> Before upgrading the Runtime Fabric appliance, verify the following: 

Reviewer 2: So...these are actually prereqs.
You can either use the Prereq heading or just intro. things like this as you have here, with "Before <performing this task>, but try to standardize to one approach per deliverable.
(Note that future task template might dictate which of these we use going forward.)

> * Make sure the `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.

Reviewer 2: Make sure > Verify that?
("make sure" is idiomatic)

> * Make sure the `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.

Author: ```suggestion
* Verify that `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer` directory has a minimum of 4 GiB of disk space available.
```

> * Verify you have root privileges. Root privileges are required to perform an upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Verify that

Not sure we need the second sentence

> * Verify you have root privileges. Root privileges are required to perform an upgrade.

Author: ```suggestion
* Verify you have root privileges.
```

> * Verify your environment meets the prerequisites:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify that your environment includes:
```
...and reword subbullets to be syntactically correct with this intro:

> ** The internal load balancer must be running on at least three replicas to maintain availability. On newer versions of Runtime Fabric, the internal load balancer runs on all controller nodes by default.

Reviewer 2: If you change intro
```suggestion
** An internal load balancer running on at least three replicas, to maintain availability. On newer versions of Runtime Fabric, the internal load balancer runs on all controller nodes by default.
```

> ** An external load balancer must be configured to load balance incoming requests to the controller nodes, with a health check configured for TCP port 443.

Reviewer 2: same
```suggestion
** An external load balancer configured to load-balance incoming requests to the controller nodes, with a health check configured for TCP port 443.
```

> ** The CPU and memory resources for at least one additional worker node must be available in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: same
```suggestion
** CPU and memory resources for at least one additional worker node available in the cluster.
```

+
This enables safe removal of a worker node from the cluster to apply upgrades without impacting application availability.

> ** Applications serving inbound requests must be scaled to a minimum of two replicas.

Reviewer 2: same
```suggestion
** Applications serving inbound requests scaled to a minimum of two replicas.
```

To upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance:

> . Using your web browser, navigate to Runtime Manager and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of Runtime Fabrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Using your web browser, navigate to Runtime Manager instance and select the *Runtime Fabrics* tab to view a list of Runtime Fabric instances.
```

> . Select the Runtime Fabric you want to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the Runtime Fabric instance you want to upgrade.
```

> . Next to the Appliance version, click *Upgrade Available*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Next to the appliance version, click *Upgrade Available*.
```

. Select the *Copy Link* icon next to *Installer package* to copy the code snippet, as shown in the following example:
+
```
rtfctl appliance upgrade --url https://<upgrade-package-information>
```
. Paste the code snippet in a text editor for reference. 

> === Update the Mule Deployments Running on Runtime Fabric to the Latest Patch Version

Reviewer 2: Did I mention in the other edit that it is too bad that the main body of this topic set is nested at the third heading level? Something to look at another time....

. Using your web browser, navigate to the *Applications* tab in Runtime Manager.
. Select an application and select *Manage Application*. 

> . The value in the *Runtime version* field indicates if an update is available. Select the updated version of Mule runtime engine.

Reviewer 2: Just to make this a combined action, without commentary...
```suggestion
. Ensure that the value in the *Runtime version* field indicates that an update is available and select it.
```

. Select *Deploy* to redeploy the application with the updated Mule runtime engine version.

> . Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Repeat this for each application running on this Runtime Fabric instance.
```

> === Verify Runtime Fabric is healthy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Verify That Runtime Fabric Is Healthy
```

. Using your web browser, navigate to the *Runtime Fabrics* tab in Runtime Manager and verify that Runtime Fabric reports an *Active* status.
. Open a terminal to a Runtime Fabric controller node.
. Run `/opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl status` and confirm that the cluster status is healthy.

> . Keep your terminal open to use in later steps.

Reviewer 2: ditto suggested rewording at Line 101

=== Run the Upgrade

The upgrade can take more than an hour to complete.

> The connection between Runtime Fabric and Runtime Manager can disconnect multiple times during the upgrade procedure. Connectivity is restored after the upgrade finishes.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should tweak the wording to include what the audience should do about this, like have the free time or not worry?

> The upgrade procedure is designed to keep deployed applications running and available to serve requests. The upgrade is applied in a rolling method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The upgrade procedure is designed to keep deployed applications running and available to serve requests by applying changes to one node at a time. 
```
...and maybe move the two intro sentences to follow this?

. A node is selected by the procedure to apply the upgrade.
. Applications running on the selected node are redeployed to another node.
. The selected node is removed from the cluster.
. The upgrade is applied on the selected node.
. The selected node is added to the cluster after upgrading.

To run the upgrade:

> . Using your terminal open on a controller node, switch to the root user. Paste the command you copied in step 5 of upgrading the Runtime Fabric appliance: 

Reviewer 2: Isn't this two steps?

Reviewer 2: step 5 > Step 5
...and quote title of subtopic, in quotation marks.

> . Using your terminal open on a controller node, switch to the root user. Paste the command you copied in step 5 of upgrading the Runtime Fabric appliance: 

Author: ```suggestion
. Using your terminal open on a controller node, switch to the root user. 
. Paste the command you copied in Step 5, "Upgrade the Runtime Fabric appliance". 
```

+
----
sudo /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/rtfctl appliance upgrade --url <cluster-installer-url>
----
+
A confirmation is displayed that indicates the upgrade is being performed in the background.
. Run `sudo gravity status` on a node and verify that the cluster status is “updating”.

> . To Monitor the upgrade procedure progress, using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To monitor the upgrade procedure progress, using your terminal on a controller node, run the following command:
```

+
----
sudo /opt/anypoint/runtimefabric/installer/gravity plan
----

> . To confirm that the upgrade has completed successfully run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To confirm that the upgrade has completed successfully, run the following command:
```

+
----
sudo gravity status
----

. Verify that the cluster status transitioned from *Updating* to *Active*. 
. If the Runtime Fabric cluster version was 1.0.x prior to upgrading and an HTTP proxy is in use, run the following command to apply the HTTP proxy settings:
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply http-proxy --confirm existing
----

=== Upgrade Node Configurations

> Perform the following step on *every node* to ensure that system configurations are current:

Reviewer 2: When formatting for emphasis (not recommended), use italic (_ _) rather than bold (* *).

. Open a terminal to a Runtime Fabric controller or worker node.
. Run the `apply system-configurations` command in `rtfctl`:
+
----
sudo ./rtfctl apply system-configuration --force
----

> . If you are using the EU control plane, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: Sounds like these should be presented as alternatives? Otherwise, the user has performed the former step before seeing the latter step?

Reviewer 2: GLOBAL re wording to replace "run this command," "use the following command," and so on: consider replacing the "To <do this>, run <this command>:" with "<Do this>:" alone.
